## Overview

This section describes the creation of the service principle required for the monitoring platform. For each environment these steps need to be repeated. So if the customer has 2 production environments (US & Asia) and 1 UAT environment these steps need to be repeated 2 times.

## Output

The output of these steps will create a Service Principle in the Azure AD tenant and assigns the principle to an custom Azure role. The created App ID, certificate and secret are securely stored in a ESS Key Vault dedicated for the customer. The following principle is created:

| Principle | Role | Mandatory | Certificate | Purpose | Example |
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|`SPN-MonitoringAgent-$environment-$serviceId` | Custom* | Yes | Yes | This SPN is used to configure monitoring setting for in-scope resources and query logs from data sources. |SPN-MonitoringAgent-PROD-BPL-MON|
*See roles section below for scope.

## ESS Support Role
The following permissions are required for the Service Principal. These permission will be created as part of a custom Azure role (ESS Support Role) and assigned to the created SPN.
```
*/read
Microsoft.AlertsManagement/*
Microsoft.Authorization/*/read
Microsoft.Automation/automationAccounts/jobs/*
Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachines/extensions/*
Microsoft.Compute/virtualMachineScaleSets/extensions/*
Microsoft.Insights/*
Microsoft.OperationalInsights/workspaces/*
Microsoft.ResourceHealth/availabilityStatuses/read
Microsoft.Security/*/read
Microsoft.Sql/servers/auditingPolicies/*
Microsoft.Sql/servers/auditingSettings/*
Microsoft.Sql/servers/databases/auditingPolicies/*
Microsoft.Sql/servers/databases/auditingSettings/*
Microsoft.Sql/servers/databases/auditRecords/read
Microsoft.Sql/servers/databases/connectionPolicies/*
Microsoft.Sql/servers/databases/dataMaskingPolicies/*
Microsoft.Sql/servers/databases/securityAlertPolicies/*
Microsoft.Sql/servers/databases/securityMetrics/*
Microsoft.Sql/servers/databases/vulnerabilityAssessments/*
Microsoft.Sql/servers/databases/vulnerabilityAssessmentScans/*
Microsoft.Sql/servers/databases/vulnerabilityAssessmentSettings/*
Microsoft.Sql/servers/securityAlertPolicies/*
Microsoft.Storage/storageAccounts/*
Microsoft.WorkloadMonitor/workloads/*
```

## Prerequisites

In order to proceed, the following items need to be available or in place:

- List of environments (short names) need to be available.
- Key Vault name storing SPN details (contact ess-monitoring@microsoft.com)
- Service ID representing the service (contact ess-monitoring@microsoft.com)
- Temporary access to Key Vault (contact ess-monitoring@microsoft.com)
- Azure Owner permissions to grant SPN and customer role approve access.

## Activities

### Manual Deployment of Monitoring Agent SPN
The following activities need to be performed:

- Download the latest versions of the following scripts:
  - https://esscommonprod.blob.core.windows.net/releases/Release{version}/Scripts/Pre-Spn-CustomRoleCreation.ps1
  - https://esscommonprod.blob.core.windows.net/releases/Release{version}/Scripts/Pre-Spn-CreationAndValidation.ps1
- Open the Pre-Spn-CustomRoleCreation script and add **ALL** the subscriptions that the applications is using (UAT, PROD, etc) to the $scope array 
- Request from ESS Monitoring team the following artifacts (can be downloaded from KVL-PROD-BusinessLogic):
  - Application ID of the Customer Integration SPN (named `SEC-CustomerIntegration-{ServiceID}-SpnAppId`)
  - Certificate of the Customer Integration SPN (named `CER-CustomerIntegration-{ServiceID}`)
  - Certificate thumbprint used by the SPN (name `SEC-CustomerIntegration-{ServiceID}-Thumbprint`)
- Install the certificate in the local store
- Open a PowerShell console (with [Azure PowerShell](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/azure/install-azurerm-ps) installed) use elevated permissions if you don't have the latest PowerShell Azure RM module installed
- Execute the Pre-Spn-CustomRoleCreation script and make sure it does not return errors


Perform for each subscription in every environment (UAT, PROD, etc):

- Execute script: `Pre-SpnCreationAndValidation.ps1 -VaultName KVL-PROD-CustInt-{serviceID} -VaultSpnId {ciSpnAppId} -VaultThumbprint {thumbprint} -environment {environment} -serviceId {serviceID} -RoleName "ESS Support Role" -ApplicationName MonitoringAgent -Pipeline 0 -UseVaultSpn 1`


### Pipeline Deployment of Monitoring Agent SPN (advanced)
Todo..

