## Overview

This section describes the creation of the service principle that is used by the ESS monitoring team to deploy and maintain support resources (monitoring agent) and configuration of that service principle in the ESS centralized VSTS instance.

## Output

The output of these steps will create the required resource group that contain the ESS support resources (monitoring & automation), the required Service Principle in the Azure AD tenant that is assigned to the resource group and a configured service end point in VSTS to deploy and update resource into the resource group

| Principle Name | Role | ResourceGroup | Purpose | Comment |
|-|-|-|-|-|
|SPN-{Environment}-EssSupportReleasePipeline | Contributor | ESS-{Environment}-Support{-Instance} | This SPN is used to deploy and update resources in the support resource group. | Customer naming convention can also be used if required. |

**NOTE: The SPN only needs access to the support resource group(s).**

## Prerequisites

In order to proceed, the following items need to be available or in place:

- List of required monitoring agent instances (resource group names) and subscriptions and locations to be available.
- Tenant ID for customer
- Service ID for application
- Azure Owner permissions for targeted environments.
- Meeting setup with ESS monitoring team to perform VSTS configuration.

## Activities

### Activities performed by EAS Operations Team
For every environment an SPN should be created. Typically we would only deploy our monitoring to UAT and PROD, so that means that the steps below need to be executed twice:

**Manual Steps:**
- Open the Azure Portal in browser and select the customer's Tenant
- Navigate to **Azure Active Directory**, select **App Registration** and click on **New Application Registration**
- For **Name** enter principle name (see Outputable above). Leave default value (Web app / API) for **Application Type**. Enter 'https://localhost:300' for **sign-on URL** and click **Create**.
- Copy and paste the **ApplicationID** to NotePad as id
- Click on **Settings** and **Keys**
- Enter 'VSTS Key' in **Description**, select duration 'in 1 year' for **Expires** and click **Save**
- Copy and paste the **Value** to same NotePad as key.
- [Create](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/resource-group-portal#manage-resource-groups)  a resource group for each monitoring agent instance in the defined subscription. Parameters need to be provided as part of prerequisites. 
- [Add](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/role-based-access-control-configure) the SPN (ApplicationID), created earlier, as Contributor to the resource group.   

### Activities performed by ESS Monitoring Team and EAS operations Team

Setup meeting with ESS monitoring team. During the meeting the ESS team will perform the following steps in [ESS Central VSTS](https://easplatform.visualstudio.com/Monitoring/_admin/_services) for each subscription:

**Manual Steps:**

- Click on **New Service Endpoint** and select **Azure Resource Manager**.
- Click on **use the full version of the endpoint dialog** to open detailed dialog page.
- Use parameter table below for values and click **Verify connection**
- Click on **OK**
- Select the new Service Endpoint and click **Roles**
- Click **Add** to add '[TEAM FOUNDATION]\ESS Monitoring Team' as a user.


## Example

Contoso has an application (FX) that is globally distributed using a single UAT environment. We use the following service ID: CONT-FX Their production environment has a Asia, Europe and Americas region all using different subscriptions. To enable monitoring four monitoring agents will be deployed (3x PROD and 1x UAT). This means that the following resources are required. Us

### SPNs for VSTS
**SPN-UAT-EssSupportReleasePipeline** with app ID: 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000 and secret xxxxx

**SPN-PROD-EssSupportReleasePipeline** with app ID: 11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111 and secret yyyyy

### Resource Groups
The following resource groups need to be created
| Resource Group Name | Environment | Instance | Region | Subscription |
|-|-|-|-|-|
| ESS-UAT-Support | UAT |  | eastus | 22222222-2222-2222-2222-222222222222 |
| ESS-PROD-Support-Asia | PROD | Asia | southeastasia | 33333333-3333-3333-3333-333333333333 |
| ESS-PROD-Support-EU | PROD | Europe | westeurope | 44444444-4444-4444-4444-444444444444 |
| ESS-PROD-Support-US | PROD | Americas | eastus | 55555555-5555-5555-5555-555555555555 |


### Service Endpoints
The following Service Endpoints are required in VSTS
| Service Endpoint Name | Principle | App ID | 
|-|-|-|
| SEP-UAT-CONT-FX | SPN-UAT-EssSupportReleasePipeline| 00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000 |
| SEP-PROD-CONT-FX-Asia | SPN-PROD-EssSupportReleasePipeline | 11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111 |
| SEP-PROD-CONT-FX-EU | SPN-PROD-EssSupportReleasePipeline | 11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111 |
| SEP-PROD-CONT-FX-US | SPN-PROD-EssSupportReleasePipeline | 11111111-1111-1111-1111-111111111111 |




