## Overview

This section deploys and configures the customer environment specific Azure resources (Monitoring Platform)

## Activities

Execute [script](src/Microsoft.EAS.Monitoring.Deployment.Platform/Pre-ValidateServicePrinciples.ps1) in the customers tenant to create and configure the required SPNs. Use Key Vault: `KVL-PROD-CustInt-{ServiceID}` to store application IDs, secrets and certificate (see Notes).

Open [Configurations](https://easplatform.visualstudio.com/_git/Configurations) repository and create new folder in root: `{ServiceID}`.

Contact Monitoring & Security team lead (see [tooling site](https://microsoft.sharepoint.com/teams/ManagedServicesTools/Lists/Customers/AllItems.aspx)) to create and configure files below:

- Every monitoring environment should have it own folder (STAG & PROD are minimum)
- Copy and adjust to each folder:
    - The [parameter file](src/Microsoft.EAS.Monitoring.Deployment.Platform/deploy.monitoringplatform.parameters.json) to deploy the monitoring platform.
    - The [alert definition file](src/Microsoft.EAS.Monitoring.Deployment.Platform/alerts.monitoringplatform.json) containing all alerts for environment.
    - The [target definition file](src/Microsoft.EAS.Monitoring.Deployment.Platform/target.monitoringplatform.json) containing all resource groups that the monitoring platform needs to monitor. 

Add the Monitoring & Security Team alias `ess-{serviceID}-mon@microsoft.com` to the configuration team in [VSTS](https://easplatform.visualstudio.com/Configurations/_admin/_security?_a=members).

Run [script](src/Microsoft.EAS.Monitoring.Deployment.Platform/Pre-SetTargetResourceGroups.ps) for every environment to push target resource groups to key vault `KVL-PROD-CustInt-{ServiceID}`.

Open release definition [Production - Monitoring Platform](https://easplatform.visualstudio.com/Monitoring/_apps/hub/ms.vss-releaseManagement-web.cd-workflow-hub?definitionId=18&_a=environments-editor-preview) and clone `ESS - Production` environment for each required environment.

Configure the right triggers and approvals for the environment.

In the variables tab; link the {ServiceID} Variable Group (created earlier) to release pipeline.

Add `{service-ID}-ServiceID` to ServiceID variable.

Add `{service-ID}-CustomerName` to Customer variable.



## Notes

Executing the SPN script requires both owner permissions to the subscription and local admin permission to the desktop. This can also be done by EAS delivery team or customer.
