## Overview

This section deploys and configures the customer environment specific Azure resources (Monitoring Platform)

*NOTE* This instruction is not required if the customer is using their own pipeline to deploy the monitoring agent.

## Output

The output of these steps will create the required configuration files and release pipeline.

## Prerequisites

In order to proceed, the following items need to be available or in place:

- Service ID of the customer (Can be found in the [customer's work item](https://easplatform.visualstudio.com/Monitoring/_queries/query/f23e1c3f-f690-40b9-8be4-e76aa2b19e53/))
- VSTS endpoints for release pipeline
- Monitoring Agent SPNs and Resource groups
- List of all subscriptions, environments and resources groups that require monitoring
- List of required capabilities to enable
- Retention period per monitoring agent (optional; take default 30 days if unknown)

## Activities

Open [Configurations](https://easplatform.visualstudio.com/_git/Configurations) repository and create new folder in root: `{ServiceID}`.

Contact Monitoring & Security team lead (see [Customer's work item](https://easplatform.visualstudio.com/Monitoring/_queries/query/f23e1c3f-f690-40b9-8be4-e76aa2b19e53/)) to create and configure files below:

- Every environment should have its own folder (STAG & PROD are minimum) using the same name as the environment.
- Copy and adjust for each folder:
    - The [parameter file](src/Microsoft.EAS.Monitoring.Deployment.Platform/deploy.monitoringplatform.parameters.json) to deploy the monitoring platform. Update Follwowing fields:
        - Customer Integration URL
        - automationName (if automation instance already exists)
        - monitoringName (if monitoring instance already exists)
        - monitoringRetention
        - capabilities (everything should be set to false during first release)
        - targetResourceGroups (resourcegroups per environment in-scope for monitoring)
    - The [alert definition file](src/Microsoft.EAS.Monitoring.Deployment.Platform/alerts.monitoringplatform.json) containing all alerts for environment.

Add the Monitoring & Security Team alias `ess-{serviceID}-mon@microsoft.com` to:

- the configuration team in [VSTS](https://easplatform.visualstudio.com/Configurations/_admin/_security?_a=members)
- the EAS delivery group in [VSTS]()

In the [library](https://easplatform.visualstudio.com/Monitoring/_library?itemType=VariableGroups) create a variable group for every environment named `Monitoring Agent Settings - {ServiceID} - {Environment}`. Add the following variables per group:

| Variable | Mandatory | Description |
|-|-|-|
|DeploymentLocation|Yes | |
|Environment|Yes | |
|MonitoringAgentResourceGroupName|Yes | |
|ReleasePipelineSPNObjectId|Yes | |
|SpnKeyVaultName|Only if customers key vault is used| |

Create a new releast defintion in the *Production* folder named `Monitoring Agent - {ServiceID}`
Create the required environments in VSTS and use the *ESS Monitoring Agent Environment* template.
Configure the right VSTS endpoint in the task in the environment.
Assign and scope the new variables groups to each environment.
Assign the *Global Settings* variable group the entire release.

For each environment add the Monitoring & Security Team alias `ess-{serviceID}-mon@microsoft.com` as approver

Trigger a release using a build out of the latest release branch.